ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
The Humber is the largest trading estuary in the UK and the fourth largest in Europe, with a chemical and process sector worth £6bn a year. The region is one of the fastest-growing chemical bases in the UK, with investment in new build, expansion and maintenance exceeding £1 billion.
This makes Hull the ideal location to study Advanced Chemical Engineering. You benefit from studying near over 350 engineering and process giants including Phillips66, Total, Novartis, BP Chemicals, Croda, Cristal, Smith & Nephew and Reckitt, many of which are involved with the university. We place a strong emphasis on the practical application of knowledge. The University has strong, direct links with industry, providing you with opportunities to work on real-world engineering projects.
Our MSc Advanced Chemical Engineering programme is designed for applicants who wish to enhance a technical career in the chemical and process industry. It is targeted at those from a chemical engineering or similar background. The programme provides a variety of practical and theoretical modules to suit the individual background of students.
What you'll study
This programme integrates current and employer-relevant themes, enabling you to acquire knowledge and skills across a wide range of topics in the chemical and process industry with an emphasis upon chemical engineering applications.
The course comprises a combination of lectures, practical design exercises, tutorials and computer-based process simulations and optimisations. It benefits from a mix of resource-based, problem-based and enquiry-led learning.
You will develop competence and confidence in the application of engineering knowledge and techniques to a range of industrial and real-world problems in the chemical and process Industry.
A final project and dissertation will enable you to apply theory and practice to analyse and solve complex engineering problems. 
Core module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Individual Project 
This module gives you the opportunity to carry out an individual design or research and development project. It is an opportunity to gain a wider perspective of society and sustainability, while exploring project management techniques and presentation of progress, milestones and results through a variety of media.​




Compulsory module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research Skills and Project Planning 
This module provides you with the skills to plan and conduct an academic or industry-based research project, and start the preparatory work on your own project that you will undertake over the summer.


Advanced Process Safety, Industrial Process Control and Instrumentation 
Specialised topics in advanced industrial process safety and control of chemical processes are explored in this module.




Optional modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Chemical Engineering of Nano-materials 
​This module introduces modern carbon and metal based nano-materials. You'll explore the nano-materials synthesis, properties modification and application fields. You'll gain firsthand practical skills development during nano-materials labs.


Energy Technologies 
Explore a diverse range of contemporary technologies related to the energy generation sector. This module also focuses on sustainability issues.


Advanced Process Modelling and Simulation Techniques 
​This module delivers advanced skills on the Aspen HYSYS and COMSOL modelling packages functionality and application to design and optimisation of the core chemical engineering equipment.


Petroleum and Petrochemical Engineering 
The oil industry is continuously developing and is therefore both recognised and expected to remain as a major contributor to the economy of many developed and developing countries and regions. Develop insight into the petroleum and petrochemical engineering sector with respect to their practical application to chemical engineering process analysis and design.


Energy Generation from Conventional and Renewable Fuels 
You will be introduced to the core technical and socioeconomic (sustainability) aspects determining the selection of conventional and alternative fuel balance for energy generation in UK and EU. This includes clean coal, natural gas, biomass residues and other waste.


Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer 
Get hands-on experience with a major commercial Computational Fluid Dynamics package and demonstrate your skills for a practical engineering application. 







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Mechanical Engineering course 
            



                MSc Energy Engineering course 
            



                MSc Biomedical Engineering course 
            



                Engineering postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Generally, we require applicants to hold a Bachelor Honours degree at 2.2 level or above (or international equivalent) in Chemical Engineering, or closely related subject, but less well-qualified applicants with relevant industrial experience may be considered.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




