ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Designed to meet demand for advanced clinical practice studies within health and social care, this programme provides the next step in career progression and academic development.
This inter-professional programme allows you to focus on specialist pathways, whilst maintaining a focus on the core principles of advanced clinical practice including leadership, professionalism, inter-professional communication, and service development and evaluation.
The MSc in Advanced Clinical Practice is a part-time programme with start dates available in January and September. 
What you'll study
The single framework structure enables greater continuity and equity in pursuit of the masters level award, and ensures that all students acquire the necessary knowledge and skills at the forefront of their discipline related to research, literature review methods, and the support of specialist developments.
Modules studied will vary, based on your pathway through the course. 
Year 1
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Advanced Clinical Assessment & Examination 


Clinical Reasoning & Leadership 



   
Year 2
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Non-Medical Prescribing: Pharmacist independent prescribing 


Nurse Independent & Supplementary Prescribing 


Physiotherapist, Chiropodist, Podiatrist and Paramedic Independent Supplementary Prescribing 


Driving Specialist Developments 


Self as Leader 


Research & Literature Review Methods 


Ethical Decision Making 
The complexities and challenges of clinical practice continue to develop in respect to social, cultural and political factors. Relative to this, practitioners are now faced with complex ethical dilemmas to navigate, and an increase in advanced roles has seen a need emerge with respect to more autonomous decision. This 10 credit module provides an opportunity for post-graduate students to evaluate clinical ethical dilemmas through an application of extensive moral theory and decision making models, fostering the development and refinement of moral reasoning.


The Deteriorating Child 
This module will provide you with the theoretical underpinning knowledge that is required to recognise the deteriorating child. The module is taught by academic staff and current practicing clinicians who are experts in their field. You will learn how to use a systematic approach of assessment to identify and treat the deteriorating child presenting with a variety of chronic and acute conditions.


Triage and Rapid Assessment in Pre-hospital, Primary and Secondary Care 
Most healthcare environments have elements of triage. There are often formal triage structures in place prioritising treatment or patient care. But, we also triage subconsciously in everyday clinical practice.
This module will provide you with the theoretical underpinning knowledge that is required to begin to explore your own experiences of triage. You will understand when and why triage is necessary as well as the current evidence base behind decision making. The module is taught by academic staff and current practising clinicians who are experts in their field.


Clinical Reasoning (theory) 
Clinical reasoning is seen as a key skill that healthcare practitioners working at an advanced level need to possess. Without these skills there is clear evidence to suggest patients come to harm and learning about clinical reasoning is seen as important to meet the demands of today. This module enables practitioners to understand the key theoretical underpinnings of clinical reasoning.


Electrocardiograph (ECG) interpretation 
This module will provide you with the theoretical underpinning knowledge that is required to begin to interpret ECGs in clinical practice. The module is taught by academic staff and current practicing clinicians who are experts in their field. You will learn how systematically interpret and relate a variety of ECGs to acute disease pathologies and a variety of long term cardiac conditions.


Trauma Assessment & Management in Prehospital Care (Theory) 
This module will provide you with grounded and functional cognition surrounding the theory of trauma assessment and management. Prehospital primary assessment will be examined and discussed, evolving and assuring your understanding of effective, holistic and systematic patient assessment.


Chest Radiograph (X-Ray) Interpretation 
This module will provide you with the theoretical underpinning knowledge that is required to begin to interpret chest radiographs in clinical practice. The module is taught by academic staff and current practicing clinicians who are experts in their field. You will learn how to identify anatomical landmarks, systematically interpret and relate a variety chronic and acute disease pathologies to a variety of high definition chest radiographs. 


Haematological and Biochemistry Interpretation 
This module will provide you with the underpinning knowledge that is required to begin to interpret Haematological (the full blood count) and Biochemistry (electrolytes, urea and creatinine and liver function) tests in clinical practice. The module is taught by academic staff and current practising clinicians who are experts in their field. You will learn how to interpret these tests in relation to specific disease pathologies and how these tests can be used to form a differential diagnosis or confirm a diagnosis.


Health Promotion 
An opportunity for you to study alongside colleagues from various professions and agencies within a virtual learning platform. The Module indicative content will facilitate valuable learning encompassing local resources relevant to their area of care with a particular focus on epidemiology and social determinants of health. Successful completion of the Module will enable those practitioners with a particular interest in Health Promotion to develop and enhance pre-existing knowledge, skills and experience. Learning will support those who face daily challenges supporting individuals; groups; and communities to adopt positive health behaviours and healthy lifestyles.


Infection, Immunity and Anti-Microbial Therapies 
Develop your knowledge, confidence and competence in providing care for patients with infections. Building upon your clinical experience and case studies from practice, you will be challenged to interrogate the evidence that underpins clinical decisions.



    
Year 3
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Quality/Service Improvement Project 


Consolidating Advanced Practice 







Apply now to study MSc Advanced Clinical Practice
Apply now to study PG Certificate Clinical Assessment & Examination


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Zach North




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                PGCert Practice Educator course 
            



                PGCert Practice Assessor (Community) course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home (part-time)£610 (10 credits), £1,220 (20 credits), £3,665 (60 credits), £5,500 (90 credits)

Part-time fees are charged pro-rata to the full-time fee, according to the number of credits being studied. This programme is only funded for applicants who are on ACP training contracts. Applicants not on an ACP training contract will be self-financing or sponsored.UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
A degree at 2:2 or a diploma with evidence of successful completion of level 7 study within the past 5 years, current registration with a UK health regulatory body and a minimum of three years clinical experience.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




