ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Due to exceptional demand, we are sorry but this course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Insitute of Marketing and equips you with the skills to choose, design, implement and evaluate creative strategies for different audiences. This MSc gives you the opportunity to pitch ideas to creative agencies or businesses as part of live projects, giving you invaluable real-life experience. 
You gain the skills to select the appropriate media channels to communicate messages for the best impact with different target audiences.
With a firm grounding in general marketing principles, you will be uniquely placed to overcome potential tensions between the creative and the practical to produce innovative solutions that meet budgets and timescales.
What you'll study
You will develop key professional and research skills, as well as an understanding of ethical business practice. You will also undertake a final research project, which can be either a dissertation or a business-based project. 
Modules include
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Marketing Management in Action 
This module aims to develop the marketing knowledge and skills to manage in any organisation with intercultural contacts. You'll showcase your understanding of marketing management through a marketing plan based on real case studies.


Buyer Behaviour and Ethics 


Advertising Management 
Develop the knowledge and skills to manage advertising in any organisation with intercultural contacts. The advertising planning process will give you practical experience through live projects from different industries.


Interactive Integrated Marketing Communications and Digital Marketing 
IMC combines and integrates all relevant elements of an organisation's communications to increase their effectiveness. On this module, you'll develop an integrated approach to digital marketing and social media, working with real businesses to develop essential digital and employability skills.


Campaign and Media Planning 


Events Marketing 


Public Relations 
This module provides an understanding of the varied nature and functions of PR. You'll develop your analytical, critical and ethical skills to deal with specific PR realities. And you'll make complex strategic and tactical decisions to create or influence PR strategies.


Research Project 







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Marketing Management course 
            



                Marketing postgraduate research degrees 
            



                Hull Executive MBA (EMBA) course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £9,750
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £9,750

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
The programme is designed for graduates from any discipline with a strong interest in the principles and practices of advertising and marketing. However, we do recommend that you have a basic knowledge and understanding of this area or business studies. You will have a minimum of a 2:2 Honours degree or international equivalent, one academic reference and a good command of English.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




