ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Make important discoveries in the world of biomedical engineering. This MSc will help you develop the skills to break down complex problems and develop the solutions needed by patients and industry.
We cover every step in designing a medical device from concept design and material selection, through analysis and optimisation, to regulatory approval.
We have first-hand practical experience of medical device development and we will mentor you as you develop your own ideas. Gain valuable experience of working with either the NHS or other relevant employers as we have built strong partnerships to drive innovation and excellence.
Access up-to-the-minute biomaterials, biomechanics and physiological measurement testing equipment as well as scanning technology including CT, ultrasound and laser.
The University has taken the unusual step of becoming ISO accredited, which means our work reaches industry standards. We commit to making important breakthroughs. Our development of a speech valve, called a tracheoesophageal fistula, illustrates this. This is used to restore speech in patients who have had a laryngectomy, normally as a result of throat cancer.
Accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) and the Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine (IPEM); this programme meets, in part, the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer. Accredited MSc and BEng (Hons) graduates satisfy the educational base for CEng registration.
 
What you'll study

Core module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Individual Project 
This module gives you the opportunity to carry out an individual design or research and development project. It is an opportunity to gain a wider perspective of society and sustainability, while exploring project management techniques and presentation of progress, milestones and results through a variety of media.​




Compulsory module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research Skills and Project Planning 
This module provides you with the skills to plan and conduct an academic or industry-based research project, and start the preparatory work on your own project that you will undertake over the summer.




Optional modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research Skills and Project Planning 
This module provides you with the skills to plan and conduct an academic or industry-based research project, and start the preparatory work on your own project that you will undertake over the summer.


Individual Project 
This module gives you the opportunity to carry out an individual design or research and development project. It is an opportunity to gain a wider perspective of society and sustainability, while exploring project management techniques and presentation of progress, milestones and results through a variety of media.​


Prosthetics, Orthotics and Assistive Technologies 
Study the principles and biomechanics behind the design of prosthetics, orthotics and assistive devices.


Finite Element Analysis for Modelling Medical and Biological Problems 
This module introduces you to finite element analysis, a computer modelling technique that allows you to accurately design and analyse medical devices, focusing in particular on the challenges of modelling complex medical and biological problems.


Medical Device Development and Cardiovascular Devices 
Explore the regulatory requirements and processes that must be followed to meet current medical device directives and obtain device certification, such as the CE mark. 


Musculoskeletal Modelling 
You'll gain the necessary experience and practical skills to undertake complex biomechanical analyses using AnyBody musculoskeletal modelling software.


Biomaterials and Orthopaedic Devices 
Examine the key structural biological materials in the human body. And learn about the biomedical materials available to medical engineers for implantation in the body.


Advanced Biomaterials and Orthopaedic Devices 
Explore key structural biological materials in the human body and the biomedical materials currently available to the medical engineer for implantation in the body. Consideration of the design and development processes of orthopaedic devices to replace or augment damaged or diseased body parts is also explored.


Artificial Organs and Micro/Nanotechnology for Biomedical Applications 
Explore devices for the replacement or augmentation of bodily functions and their application; the principles behind their design and the processes and technology used to manufacture these devices.


Medical Imaging, Processing and Analysis 
You'll become familiar with the use of professional image processing systems and the full workflow from image acquisition to interpretation in a range of imaging modalities.


Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine 
​This module combines cell biology and engineering to explore the basic principles of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. 


Human Locomotion in Health and Clinical Practice 
This module will enhance your critical appreciation of biomechanical analyses in a clinical setting. You will cover topics such as lower-limb amputation; osteoarthritis and osteoporosis; normal development and ageing; and barefoot running.



We take a broad approach to teaching. You will attend lectures by speakers from industry, hospitals and leading medical researchers. Seminars will also be led by professionals from a variety of medical and engineering backgrounds, as well as academics. The course is flexible and we make sure that teaching is delivered in a way that is appropriate to your development. We offer a variety of modules, listed below. 
We will teach you how to take a systematic approach to developing logical and practical strategies so that you can make your complex ideas become reality. This MSc has been designed to help you seek sustainable solutions, to be risk and value conscious as well as being aware of the wider professional, social, cultural, environmental and health and safety responsibilities.
Core and optional modules depend on which pathway you choose to study.




pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Mechanical Engineering course 
            



                MSc Advanced Chemical Engineering Course 
            



                MSc Biomedical Sciences course 
            



                Engineering postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000

EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Normally an Honours degree (typically 2.2 or above, or international equivalent) in an engineering or related discipline, but less well-qualified applicants with relevant industrial experience may be considered.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




