ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Due to exceptional demand, we are sorry, but this course is now closed for new applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or homepg@hull.ac.uk
 
Research shows that employers favour job applications that have relevant work experience. With this in mind, we developed the popular MSc Business Management with Internship.
This programme follows the same format as the MSc Business Management, but with a four-month internship. This forms part of your final assessment. It will help you become a competent and confident professional with key academic knowledge and practical skills.
Throughout the programme you gain a comprehensive understanding of how organisations operate. Adopt a range of strategic, modern perspectives and become proficient in marketing, finance and human resource management. This will enhance your ability to bring about change that will benefit the organisation as a whole.
You'll also have the opportunity to help out local SMEs with their challenges via our Business Clinic. 
What you'll study
The programme is 16-months, full time. You will undertake your internship over the summer and then return to complete your dissertation.
A range of optional modules will provide you with more opportunities to specialise. You will develop key professional and academic skills, as well as an understanding of ethical business practice. After the internship, you will undertake a final research project, relevant or irrelevant to your internship. Based on this you will need to submit a dissertation.  
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



People Management 


International Business Context 
The module gives an overview of international business context in today's global economy. You'll cover themes including related globalisation and regionalisation, as well as firm internationalisation and institutional environments.


Marketing Management in Action 
This module aims to develop the marketing knowledge and skills to manage in any organisation with intercultural contacts. You'll showcase your understanding of marketing management through a marketing plan based on real case studies.


Business Strategy 
This module considers business strategy and strategic decision making in diverse organisational contexts. You'll learn to use strategic analysis to make choices which create stakeholder value and strategic advantage in the complex business world.


Sustainable Logistics and Operations Management 
Discover the practical and theoretical approaches that companies are adopting in their pursuit of more responsible, sustainable and ethical supply chains and operations to improve their global competitiveness. 


Interactive Integrated Marketing Communications and Digital Marketing 
IMC combines and integrates all relevant elements of an organisation's communications to increase their effectiveness. On this module, you'll develop an integrated approach to digital marketing and social media, working with real businesses to develop essential digital and employability skills.







homepg@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
Blended between Hull Campus and a 4 month internship. 
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                Business and Management postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc Business Management course 
            



                MSc Logistics and Supply Chain Management course 
            



                Hull Executive MBA (EMBA) course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home, EU and Overseas: £11,745
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
The requirements for this programme differ from our other MSc programmes to reflect the advanced nature of the professional element.
 
To be eligible for admission, applicants should normally possess a 2:1 degree or international equivalent, have 3 years or more professional work experience, be able to provide a professional reference and an academic reference, and have a good command of English.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you will be required to provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall with no less than 6.0 in each skill. See other English language proficiency qualifications accepted by this University.
If your English currently does not reach the University's required standard for this programme, you may be interested in one of our English language courses.
Visit your country page to find out more about our entry requirements.
All applicants are required to supply a professional reference in addition to an academic reference.




