ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
This MSc has been developed in conjunction with the British Association of Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation for healthcare professionals and people aspiring to work in the evolving field of cardiovascular rehabilitation.
You are supported by teaching staff who are active in research critical to our understanding of cardiovascular health. The programme is designed for people already working in the field, as well as students without a professional background.
Gain a grounding in the theory and practice of cardiovascular rehabilitation and apply this knowledge to real-life settings. We have strong links with the NHS and the City Healthcare Partnership. Heart patients come to the University twice a week and are involved in our research, which currently includes a study of the benefits of high-intensity training to heart health.
We are currently seeking accreditation to allow students to register for the BACPR exercise instructor training qualification This will permit them to work directly with cardiac patients undertaking structured exercise training programmes in the UK.
The programme is available at postgraduate certificate, postgraduate diploma and masters level. It is designed to allow flexible study, enabling professionals to continue working.
What you'll study
The course combines theory and practice to give students the knowledge and skills to work directly with patients undergoing cardiovascular rehabilitation in the community. Students will gain advanced academic skills and knowledge to undertake an extended research project.
The MSc is a 45 week programme of full-time study although different levels of award are available:

Postgraduate certificate: 3 x 20 credit taught modules taken over an academic year (part-time)
Postgraduate diploma: 6 x 20 credit taught modules taken over an academic year
Masters degree: Successful completion of the postgraduate diploma stage allows progression to the masters stage which consists of a research project and dissertation written up as a journal article submitted, where possible, to a relevant peer-reviewed national/international academic journal

Part-time routes are also available for the postgraduate diploma and masters. 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research Methods and Statistics 


Essentials of Exercise Rehabilitation 


Clinical Exercise Testing, Prescription and Programming 


Psychology of Health and Disease 
Learn about health-related behaviours (such as drinking alcohol and smoking), chronic disease - like cancer and heart disease - and how to help people adopt to a healthier lifestyle.


Cardiovascular Disease, Treatments and Investigations 


Dissertation 
You will make an original contribution to research by designing, carrying out and writing up a project on a topic of your choice, supported by your dissertation supervisor.







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
Mixed between Hull Campus and professional practice settings. 
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology course 
            



                Sport, Health and Exercise Science postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
A minimum of a 2.2 Honours degree or international equivalent in a relevant subject (sport and exercise science, nursing, sports therapy, physiotherapy, public health or medicine).
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you will be required to provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with 6.0 in each skill.
See other English language proficiency qualifications accepted by this University.
If your English currently does not reach the University's required standard for this programme, you may be interested in one of our English language courses.




