ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
 
Chemistry at Hull is taught by the leaders in the field – including members of the pioneering research team who paved the way for the LCD display technology that's on your smartphone, laptop, tablet and TV. This MSc allows you to explore advanced chemistry topics across the range of organic, inorganic, physical and analytical chemistry.
The course will help you develop an understanding of where the forefront of chemistry lies and how research advances the boundaries of chemical knowledge. You’ll be trained in advanced practical skills required in a chemical research laboratory and undertake a significant piece of original research work in a selected field.
What you'll study
You’ll learn through a combination of practical classes, workshops, tutorials, masterclasses and lectures. You’ll work independently and within small groups to undertake research and problem-solving tasks. The culmination of the programme is an independent research project, where you’ll write a dissertation to present your results. 
Compulsory modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Preparation for Research 


Advanced Research Topics in Chemistry 


Literature Review and Preparation for Project 


MSc Research Project 


Advanced Research Topics in Analytical and Forensic Chemistry 
This module gives you the opportunity to present complex scientific material both orally and in written form which are vital skills for future employment. Your knowledge of the subject and problem-solving abilities will be assessed in a three hour exam and a written assignment.




Optional modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 
Develop insight into the frontiers of inorganic chemistry, from molecules to solids.


Advanced Organic Chemistry 
Learn about state-of-the-art organic asymmetric synthesis and retrosynthetic analysis.


Advanced Physical Chemistry and Materials 
​The module includes hot topics in physical and materials chemistry with perspectives in nanostructured smart materials, metal clusters, modern aspects of wetting and capillarity, modern emulsion science and photochromics. 







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Analytical and Forensic Chemistry course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000

EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Minimum 2.2 Bachelor Honours (or international equivalent) in chemistry or related subjects.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




