ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Due to exceptional demand, we are sorry, but this course is now closed for applications to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a current University of Hull Psychology or Criminology student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or fasttrack@hull.ac.uk.
The course prepares you for a variety of careers in mental health, including working as an assistant psychologist or a psychology wellbeing practitioner, or applying in the future to study for a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
You will strengthen your research skills and learn what is required to practise professionally, although the programme does not in itself confer a licence to practise.
Students gain an understanding of the backdrop of current thinking on the nature of mental health, how to formulate problems based on social, psychological and neurological factors, and the best evidence-based interventions. You will learn how to apply this knowledge to treat a variety of mental health problems.
The teaching staff bring a depth of experience to this course which our students have always valued. The programme is enriched by our close working relationships with the Hull Clinical Psychology Training Programme, and with local health and social care services.
What you'll study
Study is full-time over one year and comprises two semesters of taught modules.
Students are taught how to design, plan and conduct mental health related research and how to evaluate papers, theories, findings and methods used in clinical psychology, psychiatry and other mental health related disciplines. Learning takes place in lectures, seminars, laboratories, practical exercises in communication and through directed personal study. 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research Methods for Psychology 
Develop a thorough conceptual understanding of advanced quantitative and qualitative research methods. This will enable you to make evidence-based decisions in research and professional practice.


Mental Health in Practice 
You'll be introduced to real-world work settings where you will begin to appreciate the realities of work in agencies in the realm of mental health and understand and rehearse the knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviours required to work with vulnerable groups.


Professional Practice and Communication Skills 
​You will develop towards professional practice by acquiring a critical understanding of the skills required to be an ethical, reflective, evidence-based, and research active practitioner who can communicate professionally both orally and in writing.​


Theories of Mental Health 
This module will engage you in debate about key philosophical, theoretical, ethical and practical issues within contemporary mental health practice.


Psychological Interventions 
​You will be introduced to general principles of individual interventions in adult mental health including assessment, formulation, the therapeutic relationship, treatment planning and the use of outcome measures. You will learn the basic approach and techniques of modern Cognitive Behaviour Therapy and develop awareness of other interventions in common use in the NHS, and the underlying evidence base.​


Case Studies in Mental Health 
​You will be introduced to a variety of common mental health problems including mood disorders, psychotic disorders, personality disorders, eating disorders and substance abuse. Using fictional case histories, you will develop skills at clinical formulation based in Cognitive Behaviour Therapy, even when cases are complex and incomplete.​


Empirical Dissertation 
Enhance your independent research skills for designing, planning, conducting, analysing and writing up a research project relevant to mental health. You'll develop your critical, in-depth knowledge of a specific area of mental health; and increase your academic analytical and writing skills.







fasttrack@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
Hull Campus with observational opportunities with local mental health services.
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Professor Marie Reid




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                PGCert/PGDip Cognitive Behavioural Therapy courses 
            



                Psychology postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
You should have, or expect to obtain, a 2:2 Honours degree (or international equivalent) in psychology or a closely allied discipline. You should also have a minimum of 30 hours of paid or voluntary work experience relevant to the content of the programme. 
Applicants hoping to use the degree to support a future application to Clinical Psychology Training should note that such training courses generally require a 2:1 Honours British Psychological Society accredited degree and this MSc degree will not necessarily compensate for that requirement.
Applicants will be interviewed and take a statistics test before a decision is made.
Application deadlines
As this is a very popular programme and as places are limited, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




