ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
MA Criminal Justice and Crime Control (Contemporary Slavery) remains open for September 2022 entry.
Criminologists investigate the causes, consequences and reactions to crime – and this course gives you experience of designing, analysing and evaluating criminal justice and crime control strategies.
With an interesting and varied curriculum, this programme has a very strong emphasis on applied knowledge and job market skills. This course is intended to create sophisticated criminological practitioners, able to navigate the realities of criminal justice and crime control, with superior experience, skills and knowledge of how to think, act and reflect criminologically.
This MA has a strong emphasis on communication, research, problem-solving, teamwork, and policy analysis. These skills will be developed through classroom discussion and debate, as well as through practical engagement with external criminal justice and community safety organisations. You’ll be taught by a team of expert criminologists from a variety of specialist backgrounds, including: law, sociology, psychology, history and politics.
MA Criminal Justice and Crime Control (Contemporary Slavery)
The MA Criminal Justice and Crime Control (Contemporary Slavery) offers the specialist study of contemporary slavery (human trafficking) as a pathway within the degree. This pathway reflects a global important issue of criminal justice and human rights, the study of such topics are at the centre of global concerns regarding social justice and injustice.
What you'll study
Classes will be interactive, discursive, and task-based. There will be few traditional ‘lectures’, but plenty of workshops where you’ll be involved in planning, preparing and leading. With support from staff, you’ll have the freedom to shape the course of your learning and focus on your personal interests and career ambitions.
The course is flexible, teaching is blended between weekly two hour workshops interspersed with preparation and online support. Assessment is task-based and varied, and will include: Written essays, oral presentations, events organisation, engagement projects, research projects and problem-solving exercises. 
You’ll be provided with a high level of support throughout your studies, and academic support tutors work with small groups to provide support and advice.
 Criminal Justice and Crime Control 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Global Issues in Criminal Justice and Crime Control 
Explore key issues and ‘real world’ problems in criminal justice and crime control in an increasingly globalising world. Using a range of up-to-date research and contemporary concerns about criminal justice and crime control in comparative or global contexts, you will engage with debates, discussion and policy in criminological thought and practice.


Doing Research in Criminology and Criminal Justice 
Learn about the vital skills of doing research in criminology and criminal justice, concentrating on the different types and rationales of a variety of research methodologies. You will be taught by a combination of lectures and tutorials.




Trimester 1 optional modules (choose one)
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Contemporary Slavery Studies 
Gain a broad and critical overview of systems of slavery and unfree practices historically and across a multitude of contexts. Familiarise yourself with complex theoretical debates on analytical categories such as ‘slavery’, ‘forced labour’, ‘debt bondage’ and how these related to the lived experiences of people across socio-historical contexts. You'll examine a range of cross-disciplinary academic literature and research, including in history, anthropology, sociology, politics, criminology and law. Past and current research at the Wilberforce Institute will contribute to developing a critical and multi-layered understanding of concepts, ideas and public discourses and how these have been moulded and shifted across time.


Competing and Comparative Justice: Values and Ethics in the Criminal Justice Process 
This module introduces the complexity of ethical problems that arise in the criminal justice arena, challenging preconceptions of what is “right” and “wrong” in a range of situations in the UK and abroad. You will critically analyse some of the key debates about values underpinning law-making and criminal justice.


Contemporary Crime: Theories & Practice 
You will explore contemporary criminological theories explaining criminality and offending behaviour. In addition, you will examine the various strategies in the areas of crime reduction and crime prevention put forward to tackle such behaviour and whether or not these have been successful in addressing certain types of criminality behaviour.


Policing, Security and Intelligence 
‘Crime’ is increasingly seen as a global rather than local or national problem. How do we ‘police’ such problems across borders and how do police agencies co-operate to tackle problems like cybercrime or cross border criminal activity? This module will explore models of policing, transnational policing and private security policing as well as debating and exploring the techniques, ethics and accountability of the police in such settings.


Communication and Engagement with Diverse Communities 
This module focuses on the importance of social justice and inclusion when considering the creation, cohesion and safety of communities. You will learn about real world issues and concerns in diverse communities. You will conduct research concerning the issues that are uncovered with an aim to assist community safety and alleviate community tensions due to age, religion, disability and so on. The outcome of your research will be reported in a briefing product for community groups.




Trimester 2 optional modules (choose one)
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Critical Victimology and Contemporary Slavery 
Examine the definitions and representations of victimisation in slavery studies. You will also critically examine the limitations and challenges of existing criminal justice approaches to victimisation, even when these are victim-centred. You'll examine theoretical explanations of victimisation and explore the relationship between victimisation and social divisions of class, ethnicity, age, gender, nationality, immigration status, etc.


Hacking for the Police 
As part of a team, you will engage directly with complex, real world problems proposed by UK government sponsors including policy, economics, technology and national security. As the module progresses, teams will discover and validate customer needs and continually build iterative prototypes. Takin a hands-on approach, you will closely engage with UK Police, Home Office and other government agency end-users.


Gender, Sexualities and Crime 
Explore contemporary global issues in gender, sexualities and crime, including domestic violence, sex work, discussions of masculinities, ethnicities and crime, sexualities and perceptions of deviance as well as exploring race, ethnicity and social justice within a gendered and international perspective.


Global Detention: Custody, Imprisonment and Human Rights 
Explore key issues in detention, custody and incarceration across the World. Using a range of themes and case studies, you will explore the use of imprisonment, comparative approaches to penal systems as well as debates and discussions and challenges in the practice of punishment for example, through contemporary use of remand, solitary confinement and life without parole.


Incarceration Culture in Context: Research Methods and Theory in Interdisciplinary Studies 
On this module, you will examine and scrutinise a broad range of texts that address incarceration. This may include poetry by African political prisoners, Orange is the New Black (TV), artwork from Guantanamo Bay, Caribbean memorials to slave rebellions, Native American captivity stories, modern slavery documentaries and photography documenting Northern Ireland.
 




Compulsory module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Dissertation 
You will make an original contribution to research by designing, carrying out and writing up a project on a topic of your choice, supported by your dissertation supervisor.



Criminal Justice and Crime Control (Contemporary Slavery) 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Global Issues in Criminal Justice and Crime Control 
Explore key issues and ‘real world’ problems in criminal justice and crime control in an increasingly globalising world. Using a range of up-to-date research and contemporary concerns about criminal justice and crime control in comparative or global contexts, you will engage with debates, discussion and policy in criminological thought and practice.


Contemporary Slavery Studies 
Gain a broad and critical overview of systems of slavery and unfree practices historically and across a multitude of contexts. Familiarise yourself with complex theoretical debates on analytical categories such as ‘slavery’, ‘forced labour’, ‘debt bondage’ and how these related to the lived experiences of people across socio-historical contexts. You'll examine a range of cross-disciplinary academic literature and research, including in history, anthropology, sociology, politics, criminology and law. Past and current research at the Wilberforce Institute will contribute to developing a critical and multi-layered understanding of concepts, ideas and public discourses and how these have been moulded and shifted across time.


Doing Research in Criminology and Criminal Justice 
Learn about the vital skills of doing research in criminology and criminal justice, concentrating on the different types and rationales of a variety of research methodologies. You will be taught by a combination of lectures and tutorials.


Critical Victimology and Contemporary Slavery 
Examine the definitions and representations of victimisation in slavery studies. You will also critically examine the limitations and challenges of existing criminal justice approaches to victimisation, even when these are victim-centred. You'll examine theoretical explanations of victimisation and explore the relationship between victimisation and social divisions of class, ethnicity, age, gender, nationality, immigration status, etc.




Compulsory module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Dissertation 
You will make an original contribution to research by designing, carrying out and writing up a project on a topic of your choice, supported by your dissertation supervisor.







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk
Apply: MA Criminal Justice and Crime Control (Contemporary Slavery)


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Margarita Zernova




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Analytical and Forensic Chemistry course 
            



                Criminology postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MA Incarceration Studies course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £8,950

Home (part-time): £495 (10 credits), £995 (20 credits), £2985 (60 credits), £4475 (90 credits)
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £8,950

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
The programme is open to applicants with at least 2:2 Bachelor Honours degree (or international equivalent) in any discipline.
Practitioners with relevant and extensive work experience in the criminal justice, crime control and security sectors are encouraged to apply even if they have not been to university previously.  Evidence of vocational qualifications, training, written reports and letters of endorsement from line managers submitted in support of an application are encouraged.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




