ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Climate change and limited fossil fuel reserves are creating an unprecedented demand for renewable energy and Hull, on the Humber - Britain's energy estuary, is the ideal location to study energy engineering.
This MSc will prepare you for specialised industry roles in energy engineering or allow you to advance to specialist PhD study in energy and sustainability engineering.
A strong emphasis is placed on the practical application of knowledge. The University has strong, direct links with industry, providing you with opportunities to work on real-world engineering projects.
 
What you'll study
This MSc will produce specialists with advanced skills in distinct areas of energy engineering. A very strong emphasis is placed on the practical application of theory.
The programme comprises a combination of lectures, practical and design exercises, tutorials, computer-based process simulation and optimisation, and resource-based, problem-based and enquiry-led learning.
Semester one comprises core modules that will provide you with a general background knowledge of the energy industry, including economics, policy and impact assessment as well as a technical overview.
You will develop competence and confidence in the application of engineering knowledge and techniques to a range of industrial and real-world energy-related problems.
You will develop a good theoretical and practical understanding that balances the core fundamentals with the latest industry and research practice.
A final project and dissertation will enable you to identify and apply theory and practice to the analysis and solution of complex engineering problems. 
Core module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Individual Project 
This module gives you the opportunity to carry out an individual design or research and development project. It is an opportunity to gain a wider perspective of society and sustainability, while exploring project management techniques and presentation of progress, milestones and results through a variety of media.​




Compulsory modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Energy Technologies 
This module is designed to introduce students to a broad range of renewable and conventional energy sources. Given the importance of energy supply in both developed and developing economies, this module will provide students with an overview of the main renewable and conventional technologies, the principles of energy conversion, distribution and storage methods suitable for these technologies.


Project Management and Research Skills 
This module introduces you to a structured approach to planning/bidding, managing and controlling a project. You'll explore current practices, topics and methodologies relevant to contract and project management. You'll develop research skills for designing, planning and conducting an academic or industry-based engineering project.


Decarbonisation of Energy and Industrial Systems 
The module aims to introduce a range of technologies that aim to decarbonise industry and energy sector through the introduction of hydrogen, biofuels, low-carbon heating and cooling, and carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS).


Power Distribution, Energy Storage and Control 
Gain an understanding of the principles and applications of electrical power distribution and management systems. 


Energy Generation from Conventional and Renewable Fuels 
You will be introduced to the core technical and socioeconomic (sustainability) aspects determining the selection of conventional and alternative fuel balance for energy generation in UK and EU. This includes clean coal, natural gas, biomass residues and other waste.


Offshore Wind Energy 
You'll be introduced to the offshore wind industry across a range of disciplines. You'll explore the trade-offs between different pressures and requirements within current industry practice.







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Advanced Chemical Engineering Course 
            



                MSc Mechanical Engineering course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Normally an Honours degree (typically 2.2 or above, or international equivalent) in an engineering or related discipline, but less well-qualified applicants with relevant industrial experience may be considered.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




