ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Literature is a dynamic force for change. Hull English postgraduates gain insight into society, culture and politics by developing an understanding of the power of language. This MA provides students with a thorough grounding in research methods and practices.
Our MA in English can be tailor-made to your interests in either Creative Writing or English Literature, or both. In this fully flexible MA programme, you choose to focus on the writers, or forms of writing, that most interest you. Our MA English programme comes highly recommended, receiving 100% overall satisfaction from our MA students in the national 2021/22 Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES), with 100% agreeing that they feel better prepared for their future career. 
There are designated literature pathways allowing students to focus their studies on either Renaissance Literature and Culture, Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture, Modern and Contemporary Literature and Culture, or a combination of all three. Creative Writing modules allow students to focus their interests on both fiction and non-fiction prose forms, as well as poetry and scriptwriting.
The MA programme culminates in a summer research project – either a dissertation or creative writing portfolio, depending on your interests: you choose the project, and then work on it over the summer months with dedicated support from a subject specialist from the Department of English, Creative Writing, and American Studies.
What you'll study
All our students undertake a core training module in advanced level literary studies and creative writing – Research, Creativity, and Engagement – in trimester 1. This culminates in a one-day postgraduate conference, student-led and supported by the module tutors and convenor.
All students choose three further options across trimesters 1 and 2, from the indicative list of modules below. There is a final dissertation or creative portfolio worth 60 credits, and taught modules are worth 120 credits in total (30 credits each module).
Teaching methods will include seminars, creative writing workshops, student presentations and small group exercises. 
Compulsory modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research, Creativity and Engagement 
You'll be trained in research and practice-based methods in literary studies, creative writing or both. You'll work with the University-based Journal of Gender Studies to develop your reviewing skills or preparing your work for publication skills. You'll then present aspects of your research at a conference day.


Dissertation 
You will make an original contribution to research by designing, carrying out and writing up a project on a topic of your choice, supported by your dissertation supervisor.


Creative Writing Portfolio 
Creative writing students can opt for the Creative Writing Portfolio, rather than the Dissertation. Supported by a supervisor you will produce a substantial piece of creative writing, such as a novel extract, a novella, a group of short stories, a collection of poetry, or a script/screenplay. 




Optional modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Literature, Theatre and the Gothic 
This module offers a detailed study of the writing of Bram Stoker and the Gothic literary and theatrical cultures of the late Victorian and Edwardian periods. You will study Egyptian mummies, fairies and vampires, Gothic Shakespeare (on the Victorian stage), and supernatural melodrama.


Gender in Popular Culture 
This module analyses masculinity and femininity in genres central to contemporary popular fiction and film, such as crime fiction, chick and lad lit, war fiction, true crime and the gangster movie. You'll analyse these novels and films using the theoretical perspectives of Bakhtin, Foucault, Butler, Bourdieu and Fiske.


Shakespeare and Early Modern Transformations 
You will be introduced to classical and early modern theories of imitation and originality, and modern theories of intertextuality as a starting point for considering how works by Shakespeare and other early modern writers can be understood as intertextual ‘transformations’ in relation to both classical and medieval precursors, and contemporary works of fiction and art.


Contemporary Children's Literature 
You will explore key categories and developments in modern and contemporary children's fiction, such as the Gothic, Young Adult, Holocaust literature and fantasy writing. Focal texts include works by Roald Dahl, Jacqueline Wilson, Neil Gaiman, and Lemony Snicket as well as John Green's The Fault in Our Stars, Malorie Blackman's Noughts and Crosses, Morris Gleitzman’s Once, and John Boyne's The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas.


Modern City Fictions 
Engage with ideas of the city and urban living in a range of fictions, including novels and other creative prose from the end of the 20th century to the present. You'll produce either a creative writing piece or a critical essay.


Fictions of Flooding: From Noah to Now 
With flooding on the increase in today’s warming world, this module explores fictions of flooding to ask how we can learn from the past to live with flood risks today. You will study recent examples of climate fiction alongside the various myths of a great, global flood.


Writing from Life; Creative Non-Fiction 
On this module, students will be introduced to a wide range of non-fiction prose, including travel writing, true crime, narrative history and biography. You will produce a portfolio of non-fiction and reflective writings yourself and will also be expected to partake in guest talks/writing workshops with tutors who have taught for many years in prison and in other contexts of incarceration. 


Writing Short Stories 
Develop your understanding of the short story form by critically engaging with and examining a range of examples. You'll then build on this understanding by writing your own stories.


Writing the Novel 
How does an opening chapter make the rest of a novel inevitable? Through reading, workshops, and studies of character, plot and structure, you'll kick-start your own novel.







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Richard Meek




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MA Creative Writing online course 
            



                English postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc in Digital Transformation online course 
            



                MSc in People Analytics online course 
            



                MA Incarceration Studies course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £8,950

Home (part-time): £495 (10 credits), £995 (20 credits), £2985 (60 credits), £4475 (90 credits)
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £8,950

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
We normally require a 2:2 undergraduate degree in English (literary studies/creative writing) or a cognate humanities discipline or international equivalent. With your application, you must submit a satisfactory 2000 to 3000-word sample of your written work, consisting of either literary criticism or creative writing, on a subject of your choice. You can use written work that you have previously produced for your coursework.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




