ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Due to exceptional demand, we are sorry, but this course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk
Climate change, pollution and invasions by non-native species are pressing issues globally, within Europe and in the Humber region.
This MSc provides an in-depth understanding of the causes and impacts of environmental change, and equips you with the necessary skills and analytical tools to monitor and manage such changes.
You consider the scientific, political and legal consequences of environmental change and management and develop your understanding of the processes involved, integrating information at molecular, cellular, organismal and ecosystem levels.
Here at Hull, we have an active team of environmental research focused staff, both biologists and geographers, and an established track record in environmental services. We are a member of the GU8 consortium, a group of port city universities from across the world, providing us with international collaborative links that are unrivalled in the UK. We also enjoy strong, well-established industry links.
Fieldwork is incorporated throughout the programme. The city of Hull’s location on the Humber Estuary, with a large ports complex and growing renewables energy industry, within a thriving agricultural setting, provides students with an abundance of opportunities to move from bench to environment. Aquaria provision is considerable, with an established partnership with The Deep, Hull's internationally famous public aquarium.
Join our webinar – Tuesday 9 March 2021
We are hosting a free webinar to help you find out more about our Masters in Environmental Change, Management and Monitoring. Join us to hear from programme leaders, students and researchers and ask any burning questions at the Q&A. Register here
What you'll study
The programme is taught by a team of environmental research focused staff with a range of expertise unique to the University.
A critical overview of environmental change and related management policies and scientific challenges will be provided. You gain an understanding of the main aspects of monitoring environmental change, from practical, laboratory-based techniques to those used in the field by industry and regulatory authorities.
You will solve complex, real-world problems and construct and test hypotheses related to environmental issues, applying advanced theories, concepts and principles, and learning how to apply them to manage the environment.
Your skills in teamwork, communication and time management will be honed as you make use of the principles of scientific inquiry in the context of evidence-based practice and effectively communicate complex and conceptually challenging information.
A range of industry-standard instrumentation will be used and you will critically evaluate research on current and new diagnostic methodologies. Practical modules cover the wide range of current techniques used in environmental monitoring. 
Core module
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Dissertation 
You will make an original contribution to research by designing, carrying out and writing up a project on a topic of your choice, supported by your dissertation supervisor.




Compulsory modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Research issues in Environmental Management and Renewable Energy 
Work in small teams to research current topics in environmental management or renewable energy. It's an opportunity to create your own knowledge and learn skills that are highly desirable to employers, and prepare you for your own dissertation project.
 


Environmental and Energy Data Literacy 
This module provides you with key research and data analysis skills. You will design your own research proposal for your dissertation, including risk and ethics assessments.


Ecosystem Assessment 


Invasion Biology 
Invasive non-native species are one of the five main drivers of environmental change. You will study the ecology and evolution of invasive species, their impacts and management, by developing your understanding of both theoretical and applied aspects of invasion biology. 


Environmental Impact Assessment and Spatial Data 
​Environmental Impact Assessments are the industry standard for assessing the impact of developments on the environment. In this module, you’ll learn about the socio-economic, ecological, environmental, aesthetic and legislative aspects of EIAs, and critically evaluate existing EIAs.


Environmental Change in the Anthropocene 







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Magnus Johnson




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Renewable Energy course 
            



                NEBOSH MSc/MRes Environmental Management course 
            



                Biological and Environmental Sciences postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc Flood Risk Management 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
 Normally a Bachelor Honours degree (typically 2.2 or above, or international equivalent) in an environmental or science subject. If you hold a degree in another subject area, we would still encourage you to apply as we are looking for a real interest and passion for ecology and the environment and would be happy to consider your application. Similarly, if you do not hold a degree but have relevant professional experience and training, we would welcome your application.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




