ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Due to exceptional demand, we are sorry but this course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Our MSc in Financial Management provides a strong grounding in the theory and practices of accounting and finance in the corporate sector. This course is part of the CFA Institute as a University Affiliation Program. 
Through this programme you will become adept at analysing financial information, adopting an international perspective as you consider developments in financial management across different cultures.
You will be invited to put yourself in the position of a financial manager within an organisation and investigate practical, real world examples. You will also explore traditional and contemporary developments in financial practice and draw upon relevant research as a foundation on which to build strategic approaches to financial management.
What you'll study
You will develop key professional and research skills, as well as an understanding of ethical business practice. You will also undertake a final research project, which can either be a dissertation or a business-based project. 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Foundations of Finance 
This module offers an understanding of key financial theories and practices: their strengths and weaknesses, and their usefulness in financial decision making. Key topics include financial performance analysis; risk and return; capital budgeting and management; and the time value of money.


Corporate Performance Analysis 
This module explains the fundamentals of value creation and the process of measuring value. We'll introduce you to concepts and techniques for analysing and forecasting corporate performance.


Financial Markets 
This module aims to give you an understanding of the principles of modern financial markets and instruments. You'll learn to apply these concepts by following and interpreting current affairs in the financial markets.


Corporate Financial Management 
This module introduces you to the theory and practice of corporate finance, focusing on the effects of investment and financing decisions on firm value. You'll also develop an understanding of corporate financial management policies.


International Finance and Investment 
Gain knowledge and skills relating to the function of foreign exchange markets, international monetary and financial theories, foreign exchange risk management and international investment strategies. One of this module's distinctive features is its emphasis on empirical applications of theories.


Risk Management and Valuation 
This module provides you with a thorough understanding of the most modern and effective risk assessment and management tools, models and practices.







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Accounting and Finance course 
            



                Accounting and Finance postgraduate research degrees 
            



                Hull Executive MBA (EMBA) course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £9,750
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £9,750

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
The programme is designed for graduates from any discipline with a strong interest in the subject. However, we do recommend that you have a basic knowledge and understanding of this area or business studies.
You will have a minimum of a 2:2 Honours degree or international equivalent, one academic reference and a good command of English.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




