ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
 
With an uncertain future climate, there's a national demand for a new generation of professionals who'll maintain the UK’s world-leading expertise in managing flood risks. The global flood risk is set to double by 2050 and key organisations including the Environment Agency, local authorities and leading consultancies are experiencing a shortage of talented people with the skills required to build resilience into flood event preparation, response and recovery.
This pioneering new MSc programme from the Energy and Environment Institute builds on the University of Hull’s expertise around the drivers and impacts of flood hazards to understand the application of innovative new approaches to flood risk management and equip you for a career in the expanding flood risk sector.
You will gain practical and academic experience in flood dynamics and catchment management, taught by leading academics and industry experts. You'll learn about different types of flood risk reduction through site visits to pioneering flood protection and management schemes, like ‘Slowing the Flow’ in Pickering and urban water basins protecting the city of Hull. You'll gain experience of flood adaptation and control methods, and learn how flood incidents are managed by multi-agency response units
The Humber region is pioneering the development of resilient communities through internationally recognised initiatives like ‘Living With Water', which has helped Hull become one of the Rockefeller Foundation’s five global cities that demonstrate future water resilience. Your learning will be informed by the Energy and Environment Institute’s research activities and strong links with regional and national flood risk agencies, helping you start a career that contributes to innovative solutions to help our society live with future flood risks.
Watch our webinar for more information
Watch a recording of our recent webinar to find out more about our Masters in Flood Risk Management. Join us to hear from programme leaders, students and researchers, and raise any queries in the Q&A. Watch here
Hull and the Humber - Driving Flood Resilience
Find out more about the key role of the University of Hull and the Humber Region against climate change and in driving flood resilience in the UK and beyond in this short film. 
Scholarships & Studentships
You may wish to apply for an external Studentship Award from the British Hydrological Society, JBA Trust and the Environment Agency. They are working together to offer awards of between £2,000 and £2,500 to UK students on MSc courses with a focus on Hydrology, water resources & catchment management, including our MSc in Flood Risk Management. Applications close at noon on 8 August 2022 for students with a place starting in September 2022. 
What you'll study
The Programme Leader for the MSc Flood Risk Management is Dr Steven Forrest. The teaching programme runs over two semesters. All the modules detailed below are compulsory. Each module is worth 20 credits; students take 60 credits in each of the two semesters and then 60 credits for the dissertation.
  
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Water in the Environment 
This module will introduce you to the physical processes- both hydrological and hydraulic-that govern how water moves through the landscape. Understanding the flow paths that water follows and the speed of its movement are key to identifying the causes of flooding and, further, to managing flood risk through adaptation and building resilience when flooding cannot be avoided. You will be introduced to practical skills for measuring hydrology and hydraulics to understand how data are collected for flood estimation and prediction.


Flood Impacts: Living with Floods 
Flood hazards have many different causes from rivers and coasts through to groundwater and sewers. These hazards vary by place and will change in the future as a result of climate change. In this module, we use field-based case studies to look at flood alleviation schemes and SUstainable Drainage Schemes (SUDS) to understand how we can reduce different types of flood risk.


Flood Resilience: Living with Water 
Floods cannot be prevented and climate change means that flood risk is likely to increase. Economic and practical limitations mean that we cannot just build higher and higher walls to hold back floodwaters and therefore we have to introduce innovative approaches to building local, regional and national flood resilience. Living with Water is essential for flood risk management in the 21st Century and this module will build on local expertise to show why Hull was chosen as one of five cities in the Global City Water Resilience Framework.


Modelling Flood Events 
Numerical models are essential tools for Flood Risk Managers. They can be used to model innovative solutions to flood risk and enable prediction of flood events. However, they are also limited by the modelled processes they represent, and the data used to configure a model. This module will give students the understanding to use numerical models effectively and rigorously interpret the outputs from numerical models. It will be taught practically to ensure it is accessible to students with different levels of experience.


Flood Adaptation and Mitigation 
Using real world case studies, we will study different approaches to managing flood risk - from concrete walls through to the various Natural Flood Management techniques. You will see how flood risks can be reduced by slowing the flow or building walls to hold back the water. Experts will explain how different schemes are designed and implemented to show how different approaches can be used in different situations.


Managing Flood Incidents 
The impact of flooding on society can be significant. Effective responses can reduce the negative impacts when flood defences are breached. This module examines flood events and the response of agencies to flood events. Ultimately, floods cannot be prevented and all those involved in flood risk management need to understand how to respond to flood events and minimise their impact, including communicating with the general public before, during and after flood events.


Flood Risk Management Dissertation Project 
The dissertation project provides the opportunity for every student to focus on a topic that interests them. It is a unique opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of flood risk management and potentially to build links with future employers by working on projects relevant to flood risk management organisations, such as government agencies or Local Authorities.







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Steven Forrest 




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                NEBOSH MSc/MRes Environmental Management course 
            



                Biological and Environmental Sciences postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc Environmental Change, Management and Monitoring course 
            



                Geography and Earth Science postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc Advanced Energy Technologies for Buildings and Industry 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
Home (part-time)£610 (10 credits), £1,220 (20 credits), £3,665 (60 credits), £5,500 (90 credits)

Part-time fees are charged pro-rata to the full-time fee, according to the number of credits being studied. Part-time UK students on the 3 year or 4 year part-time programme are not able to take out a Master’s Loan due to the length of the course.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
Find out more about our UK Scholarships and Bursaries and our EU/International Scholarships and Bursaries.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Normally a Bachelor Honours degree (2.1. or above), or international equivalent, in any discipline and GCSE Maths or equivalent. We are looking for a real interest and passion for flood risk management and will consider applicants from all backgrounds. Similarly, if you do not hold a degree but have relevant professional experience and training, we would welcome your application.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




