ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Globalisation and recent wars dramatise the enduring importance of world affairs to government, economics and people’s lives. If you are interested in a career focusing on global politics, this programme is for you. It is aimed at degree-holders with an interest in the theory and practice of world politics.
The degree aims to impart a broad and balanced knowledge of international relations theory at an advanced level. It provides core training in political analysis and methodology of the social sciences. It examines contemporary global problems and rival approaches to their solution and offers specialisation in particular areas such as foreign policy analysis, global society, regional integration, global environmental politics, and strategic and security studies.
This MA prepares graduates for careers in media, academia, non-governmental organisations, international business, research think-tanks and government foreign service.
What you'll study
Our International Politics programme is made up of core and optional modules and a 15,000-word dissertation.
You will learn up-to-date approaches to international relations studies and more general skills in writing, research, public speaking and logical analysis through interactive seminars guided by experts in the subject. 
Modules include
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



International Relations: Theory and Practice 
This module examines international relations theory and practice. It ranges from the discipline's foundation – and the so-called ‘classical’ ‘first’ and ‘second’ debate theories of idealism, realism, institutionalism and the English school – to the approaches that form what's become known as the ‘third debate’.


Power and the State in International Politics 
This module explores the changing role of the state and the nature of power and ethics in the international system. You'll select three thematic blocks (from a choice of nine), which reflect current global problems and academic expertise.


Challenges in International Politics 
This module addresses some of the challenges for effective, democratic and ethical global governance. It engages with the issues for states and other international agents of global political change and interdependence.


Approaches to Research 
Extend your understanding of a range of research techniques and skills for the study of politics. This module provides everything you'll need for conducting research in your area of interest – from conducting interviews and focus groups to analysing statistical data and texts.


15,000-word Dissertation 
Which subject fascinates you? The 15,000-word dissertation lets you research that topic in depth under the guidance of a supervisor.







pghome@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MA Strategy and International Security course 
            



                Politics, Security and International Studies postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £8,950
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £8,950

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
A minimum of a 2.2 Honours degree (or international equivalent) in a cognate discipline, such as law, history, sociology, human geography, social policy and strategic studies, or equivalent prior experience will be taken into account.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




