ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but the full-time version course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022 due. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for the full-time postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk
The part-time variant of this course is available to both home (UK) and international applicants.
Our MSc has been accredited by the most relevant professional bodies in logistics – the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) and the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) – giving you a head start in this competitive field.
Programme content includes field trips, industry speakers and a strong practical and problem-solving element, delivered by staff recognised for cutting-edge research and translating industry best practices.
You will become familiar with the tools and techniques necessary to develop effective and efficient supply chains which deliver higher levels of value for the end user and facilitate sustainable business growth. You will explore current theory and research, seeing how this informs practice, and develop innovative solutions to real-life logistics and supply chain problems.
You will also benefit from the vast expertise and resources of our Logistics Institute, a world-class facility based at the Business School.
What you'll study
You will develop key professional and research skills, as well as an understanding of ethical business practice. You will also undertake a final research project, which can be either a dissertation or a business-based project. 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Principles of Logistics and Supply Chain Management 


Supply Chain Strategy and Design 
This module delivers advanced knowledge of the strategy and design of supply chains. You'll discuss global case studies and learn how to apply supply chain design principles. And you'll explore approaches to supplier relationship management, procurement and customer service strategies.


Decision Making Techniques for Supply Chain Management 
You'll learn modelling and measurement tools for making informed, data-driven decisions to achieve efficiency and effectiveness in supply chains. Our experiential learning philosophy means you'll also use modern software tools to gain skills for business.


International Trade and Global Logistics 


Sustainable Logistics and Operations Management 
Discover the practical and theoretical approaches that companies are adopting in their pursuit of more responsible, sustainable and ethical supply chains and operations to improve their global competitiveness. 


Supply Chain Analytics and Information Management 
You will be introduced to the theory and practice of advanced qualitative and quantitative techniques utilised in supply chain operations. By emphasising an experiential learning philosophy, you will also learn the role of relevant technologies and analytics using contemporary software tools.







pghome@hull.ac.uk
Apply now: part time


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MSc Business Management course 
            



                MSc Business Management (with Internship) course 
            



                Business and Management postgraduate research degrees 
            



                MSc Logistics and Supply Chain Management online course 
            



                Hull Executive MBA (EMBA) course 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £9,750

Home (part-time): £1,065 (20 credits), £3,200 (60 credits), £4,800 (90 credits)

Part-time fees are charged pro-rata to the full-time fee, according to the number of credits being studied.UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £9,750

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
The programme is designed for graduates from any discipline and for students with a background in logistics.
You will have a minimum of a 2:2 Honours degree or international equivalent, one academic reference and a good command of English.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




