ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
This programme has been designed to give you an advanced understanding of mathematics. Choose to specialise in a particular area or study across a range of mathematical topics in pure, applied and statistics. You will gain a solid foundation for any career requiring a strong mathematical background, including education, finance and engineering. Our graduate seminars and projects let you work closely with experts at the forefront of research and give you the transferrable skills that are invaluable for employment and further studies at PhD level.
You'll be able to enhance your mathematical understanding using computer programming in MATLAB, R, Python and more. The research interests of our staff include: algebra, fluid mechanics, industrial applications of mathematics, theoretical cosmology and astrophysics, statistical mechanics, and data analysis. At Hull, you will be part of a small community of like-minded mathematicians. 
What you'll study
There are three trimesters. During the first two trimesters, you'll study the compulsory modules, and choose four optional modules. For the final trimester, you will work closely with a supervisor on an advanced mathematical project.  
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Advanced Mathematical Project 
In coordination with a supervisor you will choose and study an advanced topic of mathematics.




Compulsory modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Graduate Seminar A 
The graduate seminar allows you to work closely with an academic on a mathematical topic that you are interested in. The module involves regular interactive group discussions, presentations and sharing of knowledge with staff and other students.


Graduate Seminar B 
The graduate seminar allows you to work closely with an academic on a mathematical topic that you are interested in. The module involves regular interactive group discussions, presentations and sharing of knowledge with staff and other students.




Optional modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Mathematical Logic 
Explore first-order logic from a formal, rigorous perspective. You will learn to evaluate and construct logical arguments. Topics include symbolic logic, proofs, consistency and completeness.


Interacting Particle Systems 
Systems of interacting particles are investigated using statistical mechanics. Topics include Ising, Potts and voter models, thermodynamic limit, phase transitions and duality.


Capstone Research Topics in Astronomy 
​This module will deliver cutting-edge research topics across astronomy and astrophysics. You'll also be trained in the use of modern astrophysics databases.


Topics in Data Science 
Cover a selection of topics in data science, which lies at the interface of applied mathematics, probability and statistics, physics and computer science.


Computational Algebra 
How can algebra be used to solve problems with the aid of modern computing technology? This module gives an introduction to the new mathematical discipline called computational algebra. You will also study related topics in algebra, number theory, and their applications.


General Relativity and Further Quantum Mechanics 
The physics of the very large and the very small. You’ll learn Einstein’s theory of general relativity and explore topics in quantum mechanics.


Hydrodynamic Stability Theory 
Understand the basic mechanisms that create instability in flows, and on methods used to calculate the growth rates and length scales of unstable disturbances to a flow







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                Mathematics postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £11,000
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
Normally a Bachelor Honours degree (typically 2.2 or above, or international equivalent) in a mathematics or related discipline, but applicants with relevant industrial experience may be considered.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadline

15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




