ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
Become the musician you want to be with a flexible taught-Masters degree at Hull.
The MMus programme is sector-leading, allowing unequaled specialisation and mixing of interests in a wide variety of areas including performance, composition (acoustic, electroacoustic, sonic arts), conducting, music technology, recording, production, pedagogy, film music, aesthetics, philosophy, semiotics, historical and critical musicology, jazz studies, popular music studies, music psychology, theory and analysis.
This course is aimed at those who have a particular interest in pursuing their study of music to a higher level and equips students with a wide range of transferable skills. Obtaining the MMus opens up career possibilities in music and in many other fields where skills in critical enquiry and a demonstration of advanced aptitude are essential.
This programme provides you with a host of opportunities, such as internships, through our professional partnerships and a range of international visiting speakers including composers, performers, and academics to expose you to key individuals in the field.
What you'll study
You’ll develop skills in your chosen specialism within one or more of the four broad areas of study - musicology, composition, performance and music technology - as well as acquiring a wide range of other transferable skills in critical reasoning and intellectual enquiry. 
Modules include
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Music Studies 1 and 2 
The central aim of these modules is to explore options within a range of musical manifestations and to demonstrate an understanding through reflective and critically engaged work.


Technical Skills 1 
This module covers technical approaches to music in your chosen specialist area and provides you with the skills to complement it. The focus is on methodological, technical and critical components. Where appropriate, it incorporates industry-specific aspects.


Contexts of Music 
This module introduces a range of critical and theoretical approaches to music and explains how these approaches are framed in academic terms. It's accompanied by a string of distinguished visiting speakers in the Newland Lecture Series.


Special Study 
This module allows you to embark on a large project of your own choice, under supervision. It could follow on from work you did in the Music Studies and Technical Skills modules. Or it could be a large and distinct piece of work, separate from earlier projects.







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Alexander Binns




Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                Music postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £8,950

Home (part-time): £495 (10 credits), £995 (20 credits), £2985 (60 credits), £4475 (90 credits)
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £8,950

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
You should normally hold an Honours degree in Music (2.1 or above) or international equivalent. In some instances, we may require you to attend an interview.
 With your application, please submit a relevant sample of work as per below depending on the area(s) of study you are interested in:

Performance: a video recording of a recent performance containing two contrasting pieces up to 10 minutes duration in total.
Composition: a sample of two recent pieces of composition work in either score and/or recorded format up to 10 minutes duration in total.
Technology: two pieces of recent work (this could include studio production, sound design, programming, etc.) in an appropriate format totalling 10 minutes duration (or equivalent)
Musicology: a sample of written work, including one or two essays totalling approximately 5,000 words.

In your application, you can provide a link to your work hosted externally.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




