ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
Sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students to study in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
 If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please click on the 'apply now' link.
Social work is a challenging, rewarding and varied career with opportunities to change people’s lives by working with them when they most need support. Taught by experts with real-world practice experience, you’ll gain insight into issues like homelessness, substance abuse, disability and mental health as well as into policies relating to social welfare and the safeguarding of adults and children.

Many UK students receive support from the NHS Social Work Bursary Scheme which can help significantly with study and living costs.
This programme is accredited by Social Work England which means you can apply to register as a qualified social worker on graduation.
Our strong relationships with a wide range of statutory and voluntary agencies mean that we can provide you with high-quality placements.
We are one of the founding members of the Humber Social Work Teaching Partnership, giving you access to the biggest employer of social work practitioners in the area.

Social workers operate within the context of relationships to support individuals, groups and communities to realise their potential. You’ll be an advisor, counsellor and listener, engaging with service users and their families, whilst liaising closely with organisations such as the police, NHS, schools, probation and the voluntary sector.
What you'll study
You'll study a mix of core and specialist modules. You'll also complete 20 practice skills sessions across the first year.
Placements
Throughout your study, you will undertake two placements of 70 and 100 days in duration. We have a wide range of statutory and voluntary placements available throughout the Humber region, which provide stimulating and supportive opportunities to integrate theory and practice. 
Year 1
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Social, Political and Organisational Context for Social Work 
You will be introduced to the social work profession and the major disciplinary, theoretical and conceptual frameworks which underpin social work. It will provide an understanding of the landscape of social work practice and social work service users through social, political and organisational discourses, perspectives and structures.


Human Development Across the Lifespan 
Study child, adolescent and adult development, focusing on attachment, separation and loss. Develop skills in observation, communication and assessment.


Critical Approaches to Mental Health 
​You will study the social, political and economic contexts within which contemporary mental health and distress is situated. You'll also examine the legislative framework which governs the understanding and management of mental health problems. 


Child and Family Social Work 
You will be exposed to the entire spectrum of statutory work with children, young people, birth parents and alternative families i.e. family support; child protection; young offenders; looked after children and care leavers; fostering and adoptive families. There will be practice skills sessions around core themes such as assessments, therapeutic work and care planning.


Social Work with Adults 
This module focuses specifically on social work with adults in the community. The module will address the subject of social care for disabled people and people with long term health needs and will introduce you to adult protection and the harm and abuse of adults.


Specialisms in Practice 
​Develop specialist knowledge in social work practice, exploring themes of substance use, domestic abuse and loss. Utilising contemporary research and practitioner input, this is an innovative module ensuring you are equipped and ready for practice.​


First Placement 
Taken with a social work agency or organisation, the first 70-day placement is exciting and challenging. This experience will help you develop and refine your knowledge and skills.




Year 2
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Social Work Research and Dissertation 
This module provides an opportunity for you to select a topic of your own choice, carry out a library-based research review and examine the research methods, ethical procedures and dilemmas involved in social work research.


Final Placement 
You will undertake a 100 day Practice Placement, which will be in a contrasting setting to your first placement and which will include some statutory work. There are also specialist opportunities such as palliative social work. You are assessed with the same Practice Capability Framework, but need to reach the Domains at a higher level for last placement.







Apply now


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
Blended between Hull Campus and work placements. 
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Course Tutor





Dr Luke Cartwright




Admissions
+44(0)1482 466100
International Enquiries


Related courses



                Social Work postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £6,100/year

Many UK students receive support from the NHS Social Work Bursary Scheme.UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £11,000/year

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate Studentship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 studentship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate Studentship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
A first or a 2:1 degree (or international equivalent) in any subject. Applicants with a 2:2 may be considered in certain circumstances. In addition, you must have at least GCSE grade C in English Language and Mathematics (or equivalent, such as Functional Skills Level 2 English or Functional Skills Level 2 Maths).
Experience of working in a helping capacity would be an advantage. 
For guidance on which alternative qualifications are acceptable please contact admissions@hull.ac.uk or Dr Luke Cartwright luke.cartwright@hull.ac.uk. 
Shortlisted applicants will be invited to a Selection Day and will complete a number of assessments as part of our selection process including an interview and written test.
We offer places to applicants whose qualifications, experience, references and quality of application (including the personal statement) persuade us of their excellence.
We are required by our regulatory body to check that applicants are suitable to undertake social work training. All students who are invited to a Selection Day must complete a confidential self-declaration form outlining any and all previous convictions and cautions (including those 'spent') and any medical or health conditions that may affect their ability to undertake academic or social work practice tasks.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 7.5 overall with 7.0 in each skill. See other English language proficiency qualifications accepted by this University.
If your English currently does not reach the University's required standard for this programme, you may be interested in one of our English language courses.
Visit your country page to find out more about our entry requirements.




