ABOUT THIS COURSE AND COURSE MODULE


About the course
We are sorry, but due to exceptional demand, this course is now closed for applications from international students for entry in 2022. Applications for 2023/4 will open in September 2022.
If you are a home (UK) student and want to apply for this postgraduate programme please contact admissions on 01482 466850 or pghome@hull.ac.uk.
War remains a matter of life and death, and although defined by violence, war is a rational tool of policy. The process by which military power is translated into policy effect is strategy. This degree covers theory and practice of strategy, including land, sea and air power; terrorism and insurgency; nuclear strategy; technology and war; and ethics. The theory of strategy is tested against historical and contemporary case studies, which include Alexander the Great, Napoleon, the First and Second World Wars, Vietnam and the war in Afghanistan.
This MA will give you the confidence to turn your ideas into action – you’ll learn the techniques involved with managing crises, including making decisions, dealing with consequences and achieving resolution. This programme will give you transferable knowledge and skills for a wide variety of careers, but especially in fields such as the military, security and risk analysis.
What you'll study
This MA covers the history and concepts of the strategic studies discipline. You’ll study strategic theory, using historical and contemporary case studies to clarify what theoretical concepts mean in practice. You’ll also learn up-to-date approaches to strategic studies, along with more general skills in writing, research, public speaking and logical analysis.
This programme is made up of core and optional modules, as well as a 15,000 word dissertation. 
Core modules
All modules are subject to availability and this list may change at any time.



Strategic Studies: Theory and Practice 
Learn how strategy works, why it's so difficult to get right and how to ensure best practice. Ultimately, this module is about how to win wars and achieve objectives in the face of the enemy. We explore and illustrate the theory through case studies – from the conflicts of Alexander the Great to those of today.


Power and the State in International Politics 
This module explores the changing role of the state and the nature of power and ethics in the international system. You'll select three thematic blocks (from a choice of nine), which reflect current global problems and academic expertise.


Challenges in International Politics 
This module addresses some of the challenges for effective, democratic and ethical global governance. It engages with the issues for states and other international agents of global political change and interdependence.


Approaches to Research 
Extend your understanding of a range of research techniques and skills for the study of politics. This module provides everything you'll need for conducting research in your area of interest – from conducting interviews and focus groups to analysing statistical data and texts.


15,000-word Dissertation 
Which subject fascinates you? The 15,000-word dissertation lets you research that topic in depth under the guidance of a supervisor.







pgadmissions@hull.ac.uk


 Come to an open day
 Grab a prospectus




Where you'll study
The location below may not be the exact location of all modules on your timetable. The buildings you'll be taught in can vary each year and depend on the modules you study.





Hull Campus



Click to view directions on Google Maps





Get in touch


Admissions
+44 (0)1482 466850
International Enquiries


Related courses



                MA International Politics course 
            



                Politics, Security and International Studies postgraduate research degrees 
            








FEES AND FUNDING 




Fees and funding

Home: £8,950
UK students can take out a Master’s Loan to help with tuition fees and living costs. For 2022 entry, they provide up to £11,836 for full-time and part-time taught and research Masters courses in all subject areas. Find out more about Postgraduate Loans.
EU/International: £8,950

International applicants may need to pay a tuition fee deposit before the start of the course. Visit our tuition fee deposit page for more information.Please see the terms and conditions for International fees 2022/23. 




Graduate PGT Scholarship
The University of Hull is pleased to offer graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate taught study a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
Find out if you’re eligible by visiting the University of Hull Graduate PGT Scholarship page.


International Scholarships and Bursaries
For a list of all scholarships and bursaries for international students, please visit the International Scholarships and Bursaries page.


Scholarships and Bursaries
The University offers a range of scholarships to help you with your studies.
For more information, please visit the Scholarships and Bursaries page.


ENTRY REQUIREMENTS 




Entry requirements
A minimum 2.2 Honours degree (or international equivalent) in a cognate discipline such as law, history, sociology, human geography, social policy and strategic studies is required, or equivalent prior experience can be taken into account.
In order to ensure our students have a rich learning and student experience, most of our programmes have a mix of domestic and international students. We reserve the right to close applications early to either group, if application volumes suggest that this blend cannot be achieved. In addition, existing undergraduate students at the University of Hull have a guaranteed ‘Fast Track’ route to any postgraduate programme, subject to meeting the entry criteria.




International students
Application deadlines

ATAS programmes - 29 April 2022
All other programmes - 15 August 2022

Your deposit should be paid by 25 August, you should accept any offer by 29 August and your CAS must be issued by 5 September.
Language requirements
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you must provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.5 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other accepted English language proficiency qualifications.
If your English currently does not reach the required standard, you may be interested in our pre-sessional English Language programmes.
Visit your country page to find out more about entry requirements.




