courseName: PHILOSOPHY-AND-POLITICS-BA-HONS
COURSE OVERVIEW

We hope to offer this programme in 2024. For entry in 2022 or 2023, you may be interested to apply for BA Philosophy, BA Politics or BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics


Here, you'll learn in what we call the ‘the Hull way’. You don't just receive ideas and instruction: you learn how to engage, to debate, to influence and to lead.


Studying philosophy and politics together teaches you to think about matters of fundamental importance from a wider perspective. Experts in both of these complementary disciplines teach on this combined course. They work together to make this degree more integrated than similar courses run elsewhere.


You can also choose to spend three months working at Westminster or studying abroad.


courseLength 
Course length
3 years

courseCode 
UCAS code
LV25

courseTitle 
BA 

                
Philosophy                 
courseMode Full-time
description 
Engage with philosophy and consider how it relates to politics. Opt to spend three months at Westminster or studying abroad.


courseModules 
First Year
FEE AND FUNDING 
Home STUDENT: £9,250 per year*
International STUDENT: £15,400 per year
Additional Information about FEE
*The amount you pay may increase each year, in line with inflation - but capped to the Retail Price Index (RPI).
The fees shown are for 2022 entry. The fees for 2023 have not yet been confirmed and may increase.
UK students can take out a tuition fee loan to cover the cost of their course and a maintenance loan of up to £9,706 to cover living costs.
Substantial discounts are available for International students.  
More information on fees can be found in the Money section of our website. 
Your tuition fees will cover most costs associated with your programme (including registration, tuition, supervision, assessment and examination).There are some extra costs that you might have to pay, or choose to pay, depending on your programme of study and the decisions you make. The list below has some examples, and any extra costs will vary.

Books (you’ll have access to books from your module reading lists in the library, but you may want to buy your own copies)
Optional field trips
Study abroad (including travel costs, accommodation, visas, immunisation)
Placement costs (including travel costs and accommodation)
Student visas (international students)
Laptop (you’ll have access to laptops and PC’s on campus, but you may want to buy your own)
Printing and photocopying
Professional-body membership
Graduation (gown hire and photography)

Remember, you’ll still need to take into account your living costs. This could include accommodation, travel and food – to name just a few. 
ENTRY REQUIREMENT: 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT: 
If you require a student visa to study or if your first language is not English you will be required to provide acceptable evidence of your English language proficiency level.
This course requires academic IELTS 6.0 overall, with no less than 5.5 in each skill. See other English language proficiency qualifications accepted by this University.
If your English currently does not reach the University's required standard for this programme, you may be interested in one of our English language courses.
Visit your country page to find out more about our entry requirements.
LOCAL STUDENT: 

A level grades BBC





BTEC grades
DMM



